September 10, 2014

Code is working.
Able to run through validation 1 & 2, large deflection cantilever.
Solver is having issues.  Can't get through 45 degree curve validation.
Get correct answer with 300 lbs and one step.

Trying to fix solver.

Solver now working much better - still may be taking too many increments
Able to get through validation problems without trouble


August 1, 2014
Begining material nonlinearity investigation


September 10, 2014
Believe nonlinear cord is implemented correctly, issue may be with solver

Trying to implement arc-length method


October 28, 2014
Solver seems to be working, although it needs refinement.  Able to decrease
step size, but not increase when needed.

Refining material nonlinearity.  Able to solve 2D beam case past wrinkling
load, however it is not 3D general.  Modifying get_KL_P to find location
of NA in 3D.


November 12, 2014
I believe that the material model, (cords and shell) is now general 3D.
Able to converge past wrinkling for test case (71 deg, 20 psi) in two 
orthogonal orientations.

Working on including first order shear deformation.


December 18, 2014
3D corotational formulation has been implemented
Arc-length solver has been implemented, (must refine load stepping)
Shear deformation is included in the corotational formulation
Test cases are working in multiple orientations

Next steps:
Clean up code
Analyze straight beam bending tests


December 31, 2014
Beam analysis is in working order.
Have implemented a version of smart load stepping.
Refinements will be ongoing with modeling

Will begin to develop a torus model of the torus testing being conducted at UMaine


January 28, 2015
Had to make significant alterations to previous version of FE routine.
Now seems to be in working order

Calculating the initial stiffness matrix:
	-Locate NA
	-Calculate stiffness about NA
	-Solve Eigenvalue problem
	-Generate stiffness matrix in principal coordinate system
	-Transform stiffness matrix to local coordinate system

Now using quaternions to handle large rotations

Updates to arc-length solver

Routine seems to be able to handle wrinkling in most cases

Able to run preliminary torus model, (distributed in-plane loading) cords loose stiffness


February 3, 2015
Clean up routine
Incorporate spring boundary conditions for torus analysis


February 26, 2015
Linear spring boundaries have been incorporated
Having trouble with solver, can't get over wrinkling

Will rework analysis architecture, cleanup

Try to incorporate MATLAB solver


March 19, 2015
Spent a significant amount of time refining routine.  Was having trouble getting past wrinkling.
Rewrote equilibrium equations in element routine.  Refined cord input (smoother curve).
Using 'step-work' arc-length solver.  Much better convergence now.

Will clean up routine.  Refine step-work solver.



March 30, 2015
Was still having trouble getting past the wrinkling load.
The error was found in the calculation of the NA.  I am now calculating the
NA using the tangent stiffnesses after itterating to find the bending axis.

The routine is able to get past wrinkling without any trouble, using the
Newton solver.

Next steps: clean up code, model beams, return to modeling tori



April 15, 2015
Having success modeling beams and single torus.
Modeled all beams in 30MAR15_all
Modeled single torus in 09APR15_tor - able to track buckled shape with 
step-work solver

Adding realism
Modified BCs, torus vertical and tangential supports at 4 points around torus
Bilinear support spring to allow liftoff of torus during buckling
Gravity loading
Now accomodates load steps

Must incorporate measured loading from test
Strap load and torsional moment if top and bottom strap loads are not equal

Must include measured geometry

Must apply load so that strap load is measure load, by applying measured load
some of the force will go into the reaction when the strap deviates from the 
nominal location.  Constrain force? Constrain temperature?  Will start with
applying strap loads.



May 11, 2015
Have come up with a cord-force algorithm for modeling cord hysteresis.
Trying to implements for straight tube tests - loading and unloading.


May 28, 2011
Had success with hysteresis algorith
Implemented displacement control algorithm
Updated arc-length control algorithm (Clarke and Hancock 1990)
Linearizing cord force-strain relationship for each step

Going back to torus analysis
Will implement two loading straps with rigid link
displacement control algorithm may be useful


June 5, 2015
Implemented two load straps
General refinement

Implementing measured torus geometry and measured torus loads


July 1, 2015
Implemented measured geometry (T5C-1) torus.  There is no internal forces
in initial configuration.

Reworked average element triad (R_bar) in corotational formulation.
Now simply the average of Ni and Nj.  Seems to be working.

Having luck modeling T5C-1 torus.  Obtaining similar buckling mode at
buckling load.  Using strap end displacement controlled analysis.  Must
decrease strap stiffness significantly.

Next steps:
Need to control displacement with strap passing through location of pulley
Convergence study with strap stiffness


August 20, 2015
Routine seems to be working well.
Success with follower forces.
Success with validation cases (lin elastic torus, large deflection cantilever).
Running analyses for modeling paper (beams and tori).


September 18, 2015
Time to do some cleanup


September 21, 2015
Trying to change to an object oriented framework, at least make elements self contained.


February 02, 2016
Now using a flexibility based fiber beam element
Straight tube tests validated
Ready to move to the next level of modeling complexity




